---
title: '37 Weeks: Full Term'
author: Shannon
layout: post
permalink: /2009/07/37-weeks-full-term/
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
Hooray – our baby is officially full term!  If  baby was born any day now his/ her lungs would be ready for the outside world. What a wonderful milestone!! Unfortunately, baby is still in a complete breech position.  This past Friday, we attempted an external version performed by the most experienced OBGYNs in hopes of manually flipping the baby.  The baby&#8217;s heart beat was perfect during the whole procedure, so he/she  obviously didn&#8217;t mind the movement&#8230; but in the end, baby didn&#8217;t agree to being head down. He said there might be a reason Baby Pots doesn&#8217;t want to turn, but there isn&#8217;t anything medically to worry about. We like to think that Baby Pots is simply really comfortable.  Dave and I were joking that, when our baby is older, we can tell the story how he/she fought off two large male OBGYNs at the age of only 37 weeks!

The sad news for us is that we are now going to have deviate from our plan for a natural birth and instead schedule a Cesarean.  Most Doctors and Nurse Midwifes don&#8217;t deliver breech babies anymore, as its just too high of a risk.  I had a few tears accepting the news.  For the past 9 months we&#8217;ve been receiving pre-natal care from a woman&#8217;s birthing center called [Special Beginnings][1] (they are focused around natural childbirth). It&#8217;s almost like birthing at a bed & breakfast, complete with birthing jacuzzis and all the medical skills & items needed for low-risk pregnancies.  The staff consists of Nurse Midwifes and OBGYNs that work with the Anne Arundel Medical Center.  So now we will be birthing at [Anne Arundel Medical Center][2] which is also a great hospital.  One of the Nurse Midwifes that we have established a relationship with throughout the pregnancy will attend the Cesarean which makes me feel better.  On Tuesday, we&#8217;ll meet with the OBGYNs who will perform the Cesarean. The Cesarean will happen between 39-40 weeks (last week of July).  There is a small chance baby could flip before the Cesarean, if so we would birth at Special Beginnings.

I know many people thought that we were crazy for wanting a non-medicated birth; and I also know in the heat of labor I would probably feel that we were crazy too.  However, we somewhat feel like we are missing out on a spiritual experience that we have prepared so hard for: 3 months of classes, pre-natal yoga, birthing exercises, swimming, strict healthy diet&#8230;, ahh, sigh.  The pain of labor doesn&#8217;t worry me but being cut open, having a needle in my spine and being numb makes me really nervous.  I am working on dealing with my fears and Dave has been very loving and supportive in helping me through it.  The baby&#8217;s health is our number one priority so I know once baby arrives that&#8217;s all that matters. We love you baby!

 [1]: http://www.specialbeginnings.com/
 [2]: http://www.aahs.org/womens/maternity.php?nav=pm